? What is Automatic Frame Rate (AFR)?
? Do I really need this program?

! Motion video is always filmed at certain frame rate.
! Traditional movies are shot at 24 frames per second, TV broadcasting
! uses 30/60 (NTSC standard) or 25/50 (PAL and SECAM standards) frames
! per second.

! TV will display content at a certain frame rate, which is called
! "vertical refresh rate". Most TVs and displays can work at different
! refresh rates.

! When movie framerate is not a multiple of refresh rate, the picture
! will play perceptibly non-evenly, which is sometimes referred as
! "judder". This is especially perceived on scenes where camera
! slowly moves sideways (panning). For example, when playing a 24
! frames per second video on a TV which uses a 60 Hz refresh rate,
! the order of frames displayed on TV will be:

! 0 0 0 1 1 2 2 2 3 3 4 4 4 5 5 6 6 6 7 7 ...

! As you can see, frames are displayed for a different period of time:
! even frames are displayed three times (3/60 seconds) while odd frames
! are displayed just two times (2/60 seconds). This is what makes you
! feel uncomfortable while watching such content.

! AFR is the process of harmonization between video frame rate and
! vertical refresh rate. This doesn't always mean that refresh rate
! must be set exactly to video frame rate; it is only important that
! refresh rate must be a multiple of frame rate. For example, it is
! perfectly acceptable to watch 30 frames-per-second content on a
! 60Hz refresh rate display, because every frame will be displayed
! two times (2/60 seconds), which is same as 1/30 seconds you would
! get if refresh rate would be 30Hz.

? Should I disable "system" auto framerate when using AFRd?
? Many video players (KODI/SPMC, ViMu, Smart Youtube etc) have a option
? to adjust TV refresh rate according to video. Should I enable it?

! First of all, on most AmLogic-based devices these option do nothing.
! In most cases it is broken - either in kernel, or in Android itself.
! In some cases this option requires special support in Android API,
! which is non-existent in most cases on AmLogic devices (except on
! some Beelink and Minix boxes, maybe some others).

! Second, no matter if it works, you must disable it - especially
! if it really works, like the "framerate switcher" addon for KODI/SPMC.
! The reason is that two working AFRs will always conflict.

! In the better case you'll get longer "black screens" during refresh
! rate switches, and in worst case you can even get "black screen forever"
! until reboot.

! That's why I always insist on disabling all other AFR subsystems
! if you're using AFRd.

? I still see "judder" in videos. Why?
? Despite the fact that AFRd correctly switches refresh rate, I still
? see frame judder on playback.

! AFRd is not a magic pill, it will just switch display mode to one
! that is most suitable for current movie.

! Everything else depends on a lot of other factors - the quality of
! video stream, the quality of the hardware decoder, the program
! for playing video, the setup of your TV.

? Green-ish/purple-ish image during playback
? Sometimes during playback image becomes "greenish" (sometimes:
? "purplish"). What do I do?

! The usual reason for these faults are loose connections on
! HDMI bus between the TV box and the TV.

! Try replacing the HDMI cable with something of a better quality:
! less flexible are better (although less handy), ferrite rings
! are a bonus (bulges near the ends of the cable).

! Also try inserting the cable into a different HDMI jack, if it
! is possible.

? Black screen on refresh rate switch
? Sometimes after refresh rate switching screen becomes black and
? won't restore (sometimes: will restore after video stops, or:
? restores after I reboot the box).

! This is your TV fault. Refresh rate switching is a stress situation
! for a TV - it has to determine all the parameters of the incoming
! video signal. Sometimes it fails to do it correctly, and it just
! 'hangs', although this depends from model to model.

! Some people assert that this does not happen if you switch HDMI bus
! to RGB format (normally video signal is encoded in the YUV format).

? How I can switch the HDMI bus to RGB format?
? I heard this can help with "greenish image" / "black screens" /
? bad karma etc.

! Open "Settings" -> "Advanced settings" -> "Color space selection rules".
! Replace the value "...=444" with "...=rgb". Don't touch the "420"
! mode - it is not possible to transmit an RGB stream at 4k resolution
! and >30hz refresh rates via HDMI 1.x.

? My TV doesn't "like" certain refresh rates
? I use the "Prefer exact refresh rates" option but, still, I want to use
? 60Hz refresh instead of 30Hz. How can I do it?

! Open "Advanced settings" -> "Blacklisted refresh rates" and add the
! refresh rate of 30 (and, possibly, 29.97) Hz to the list.

? At start of video display turns off even if framerate does not change.
? Why after video start the screen goes to black for some time, even if
? video framerate is not different from display refresh rate?

! When video starts, after a short interval AFRd will turn the screen to
! black to avoid displaying the first frames of the video, after which
! usually a refresh rate switch happens, which is painful for eyes.

! So, to make the switch easier for eyes it was found that a preliminary
! switch to black helps.

! But at the moment when AFRd switches display to black it doesn't know
! yet the video framerate - detection is a lengthy process taking from
! half to a few seconds. So, at the time AFRd turns display off it doesn't
! know yet the framerate and can't avoid the unneccessary black screen.

! If you wish, you can turn off this feature in preferences.

? Why display doesn't turn off when I start one video immediately after another?

! Preliminary switch to black takes action only if there's no active video.
! If video was already started, AFRd will avoid turning screen to black
! because it is not expected frame rate to change.

! When video ends, AFRd will wait some time before restoring original
! refresh rate. If you start a video immediately, it will be considered
! a "continuation" of previous video, thus screen won't be turned off.

! If you want display to turn off after the start of video, wait first
! for the original refresh rate to restore.

? What is the meaning of "Fractional rate usage policy" option?
? What does the option that allows to choose between "fractional" and
? "integer" refresh rates?

! Usually AFRd will correctly "guess" the video frame rate (23.976 vs 24
! and so on), but sometimes it may do it wrong.

! If you mostly watch videos with "fractional" frame rates (23.976, 29.97,
! 59.94 fps), or if you mostly watch videos with "integer" frame rates
! (24, 30, 60 fps), you may decide to set this option to avoid AFRd
! errors altogether.

! But I recommend keeping this option to "auto" - first, because AFRd
! most of the time does the right job and, second, because most likely
! you won't see the difference between a 23.976 and 24 Hz refresh,
! a slight error here will result in just a single frame inserted
! or removed every ~41 seconds.

? Why refresh rate doesn't switch on low-res videos in KODI/SPMC?
? When playing in KODI/SPMC videos with low resolution (less than 720p),
? refresh rate doesn't switch. Same happens with MX Player when using
? the "SW" decoder option.

! AFRd supports automatical framerate switching only when using the
! hardware decoder. KODI developers decided to use, when possible
! (if enough processor power) the software decoder.

! In SPMC you can solve this problem by changing the options
! "Accelerate MPEG2/MPEG4/h264/hevc" to "Always" in section
! "Settings -> Player". In MX Player problem is solved by choosing
! "HW" or "HW+" decoder option. In KODI this problem has no solution
! yet.
