? I still see "judder" in videos. Why?
? Despite the fact that AFRd correctly switches refresh rate, I still
? see frame judder on playback.

! AFRd is not a magic pill, it will just switch display mode to one
! that is most suitable for current movie.

! Everything else depends on a lot of other factors - the quality of
! video stream, the quality of the hardware decoder, the program
! for playing video, the setup of your TV.

? Green-ish/purple-ish image during playback
? Sometimes during playback image becomes "greenish" (sometimes:
? "purplish"). What do I do?

! The usual reason for these faults are loose connections on
! HDMI bus between the TV box and the TV.

! Try replacing the HDMI cable with something of a better quality:
! less flexible are better (although less handy), ferrite rings
! are a bonus (bulges near the ends of the cable).

! Also try inserting the cable into a different HDMI jack, if it
! is possible.

? Black screen on refresh rate switch
? Sometimes after refresh rate switching screen becomes black and
? won't restore (sometimes: will restore after video stops, or:
? restores after I reboot the box).

! This is your TV fault. Refresh rate switching is a stress situation
! for a TV - it has to determine all the parameters of the incoming
! video signal. Sometimes it fails to do it correctly, and it just
! 'hangs', although this depends from model to model.

! Some people assert that this does not happen if you switch HDMI bus
! to RGB format (normally video signal is encoded in the YUV format).

? How I can switch the HDMI bus to RGB format?
? I heard this can help with "greenish image" / "black screens" /
? bad karma etc.

! Open "Settings" -> "Advanced settings" -> "Color space selection rules".
! Replace the value "...=444" with "...=rgb". Don't touch the "420"
! mode - it is not possible to transmit an RGB stream at 4k resolution
! and >30hz refresh rates via HDMI 1.x.

? My TV doesn't "like" certain refresh rates
? I use the "Prefer exact refresh rates" option but, still, I want to use
? 60Hz refresh instead of 30Hz. How can I do it?

! Open "Advanced settings" -> "Blacklisted refresh rates" and add the
! refresh rate of 30 (and, possibly, 29.97) Hz to the list.

? At start of video display turns off even if framerate does not change.
? Why after video start the screen goes to black for some time, even if
? video framerate is not different from display refresh rate?

! When video starts, after a short interval AFRd will turn the screen to
! black to avoid displaying the first frames of the video, after which
! usually a refresh rate switch happens, which is painful for eyes.

! So, to make the switch easier for eyes it was found that a preliminary
! switch to black helps.

! But at the moment when AFRd switches display to black it doesn't know
! yet the video framerate - detection is a lengthy process taking from
! half to a few seconds. So, at the time AFRd turns display off it doesn't
! know yet the framerate and can't avoid the unneccessary black screen.

! If you wish, you can turn off this feature in preferences.

? Why display doesn't turn off when I start one video immediately after another?

! Preliminary switch to black takes action only if there's no active video.
! If video was already started, AFRd will avoid turning screen to black
! because it is not expected frame rate to change.

! When video ends, AFRd will wait some time before restoring original
! refresh rate. If you start a video immediately, it will be considered
! a "continuation" of previous video, thus screen won't be turned off.

! If you want display to turn off after the start of video, wait first
! for the original refresh rate to restore.

? What is the meaning of "Fractional rate usage policy" option?
? What does the option that allows to choose between "fractional" and
? "integer" refresh rates?

! Usually AFRd will correctly "guess" the video frame rate (23.976 vs 24
! and so on), but sometimes it may do it wrong.

! If you mostly watch videos with "fractional" frame rates (23.976, 29.97,
! 59.94 fps), or if you mostly watch videos with "integer" frame rates
! (24, 30, 60 fps), you may decide to set this option to avoid AFRd
! errors altogether.

! But I recommend keeping this option to "auto" - first, because AFRd
! most of the time does the right job and, second, because most likely
! you won't see the difference between a 23.976 and 24 Hz refresh,
! a slight error here will result in just a single frame inserted
! or removed every ~41 seconds.
